# Requirements

Currently the best supported setup (as we use it for development) for this framework is this:

- Debian / Ubuntu Linux *(Most recent LTS Ubuntu is running on the dev server.)*
- PHP 5.3.0 or greater *(I've tested it on 5.2.6 and it works as well)*
- Apache 2.2 with PHP running with mod\_php and mod\_rewrite enabled *(PHP over CGI should also work)*
- MySQL 5.1 *(but 5.0 or even 4.x should work as well)*

# How to install this framework

1. Get the sources in a [tar.gz file](https://github.com/Luzifer/PHPFramework/tarball/master) 
   or see the [Download](https://github.com/Luzifer/PHPFramework/downloads) section for more
   options.
1. Put it on the server in a directory outside the Document Root to use all security features
   built in.
1. Set the document root to the **/public/** directory
1. If you need it set up a MySQL database and user and put the settings to the **/config/settings.ini**

If you have no chance to run the framework with DocumentRoot set to **/public/** you also can move
all files of **/public/** to the main directory, put this into any subdirectory and modify the 
**.htaccess** file for your needs. I recommend to add one **.htaccess** file to each directory you
don't need to access directly (classes, config, docs, handlers, helpers, lib, templates) with this 
content to get a little bit of security back:

    Order allow,deny
    Deny from all

This tiny bash script can help you to do this. It has to be executed from the
main directory:

    #!/bin/bash
    for i in $(find . -type d -mindepth 1); do
      echo -e "Order allow,deny\nDeny from all" >> $i/.htaccess
    done

# Things you should try after installing

1. Look at the configuration at **/config/settings.ini**
1. Define your own URL handler at **/config/urls.php**
1. Write your own handler class and place them to **/handler/**
1. Modify the existing or write your own templates in **/templates/**
1. Place your static resources somewhere in **/public/**
1. Add the directory **/template/cache** with chmod 777 to support template caching

If you have done all of that points I'm pretty sure you got how this
framework is supposed to work. Now you can build nearly everything 
with this. 

You are missing something? Just implement it and send me
a patch file or pull request for your work!

# License

Copyright (c) 2011 Knut Ahlers <knut@ahlers.me>   
All rights reserved.

Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without 
modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions are met:

- Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright notice, this 
  list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
- Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright notice, 
  this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the documentation 
  and/or other materials provided with the distribution.

THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND CONTRIBUTORS "AS IS" 
AND ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE 
IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE 
ARE DISCLAIMED. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE COPYRIGHT HOLDER OR CONTRIBUTORS BE 
LIABLE FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR 
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF 
SUBSTITUTE GOODS OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS 
INTERRUPTION) HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN 
CONTRACT, STRICT LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) 
ARISING IN ANY WAY OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE 
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGE.

# Changes

**2011-12-02:**

- Updated Twig to version 1.3.0

**2011-11-15:**

- Removed Apache mod\_php-only functionality to support PHP over CGI
- Moved config to new file to prevent overwriting it while upgrading the framework
- Published all code under BSD license
- Removed dbadmin as of security and license issues